I had the privilege for two years
of sitting at the same table
as Sister Orrom for morning worship.
She expected nothing and appreciated
everything that you did for her.
Sister Orrom
was affectionately known as Joey.
And if you take the “e” out of Joey,
you’re left with the English word “joy,”
and that summed her up.
My impression of Joey
when I first met her
was here is this frail old lady.
But then when you
started to speak to Joey,
you were tapping
into a tremendous depth.
About the age of 20,
round about that time,
I had the heavenly calling.
That was a big battle.
I couldn’t understand why Jehovah
would use a person like me.
And when I was 21,
I got into pioneering, in 1939.
But the police were after me
because I wouldn’t join the armed forces,
and I was tried under a new act.
And they kept taking me
into a side room and saying,
“If you will say you are not connected
with Jehovah’s Witnesses,
not connected with the Watch Tower,
you’ll have a walk away.”
I said: “I am connected
with the Watch Tower.
I’m proud to be connected
with the Watch Tower.”
And they said,
“Then they are directing you.”
I said, “No, my stand of not doing
as you wish is my own personal stand.”
So this went on.
In the end, they sent me
to prison just for two months
and then let me out.
I partnered with another sister,
and she and I went to Northern Ireland
and pioneered there for 18 months.
And it was in Northern Ireland
that we had our call to Gilead.
In 1948, Joey was invited to Gilead,
and that was the 11th class.
It left an impression on me,
which I will never ever, ever forget.
You pick up that spirit
of good behavior, of love.
It’s something that leaves
its mark, or it should.
It has left its mark on me
—very, very much so.
One thing Brother Knorr impressed on us:
“You’ll be three years on your assignment
before you really love it.”
And it was true
because it was a hard assignment.
After Gilead,
she was assigned to be a missionary
in Dublin,
in the Irish Republic.
That was the time when Catholic priests
used to organize mobs against the pioneers.
She was full of joy,
but that didn’t mean to say
that she’d had an easy life.
We never went out from door to door
without being mobbed
and attacked and beaten up
and thrown around.
And you could only do
a few houses in a row,
and you’d have to get away very quickly.
But we made a very good name.
People got to know
we were completely neutral.
They chose four of us
to work the business property,
and I got some studies
going in their offices.
But one place I went into,
I walked the length of this draper shop,
and I asked if I could go
into the manager’s office.
As I went in, I didn’t say a word.
I didn’t open my mouth
and even say good morning,
but this man stood up,
and he said, “Russellite!”
And he took hold of me
by the scruff of my neck
and the seat of my pants,
and he lifted me up
and he carried me
the length of the store.
Well, like a silly one,
I should’ve gone heavy on him, you see.
But instead of that,
I let my legs paddle
and I was hanging onto my book bag,
not wanting to lose it.
And when he got
to the front door, the staff,
their eyes were absolutely aghast
at what was happening.
He opened his front door
and threw me out, literally.
And I went zoom!
just managed to go zoom!
And one of the brothers was passing,
and he caught me
—caught me steady—
and said,
“Whatever is going on?”
And I couldn’t stop laughing.
To me it was very, very funny.
The rest were so cross about it,
but I wasn’t at all cross.
I thought it was quite hilarious.
I could see myself being carried
through this shop sky-high.
Things like that happened.
These experiences
did not dampen her zeal.
She always retained that missionary spirit.
I first met Joey
when I was commuting to Bethel
in the infirmary.
She was sitting on that old-fashioned chair
with this huge Bible,
and she stayed there hours reading the Bible,
praying to Jehovah.
Often, when you came in,
she’d be in the middle of Bible reading.
And she’d be saying something like,
“Daniel has just been thrown
into the lion’s den!”
or “Oh, Jehovah is really angry.
He’s thundering from the heavens!”
And it made me think, ‘Wow!
‘She must have read
the Bible so many times,
but every time it was as if it was
happening right in front of her.’
Right up until she became incapacitated,
she was conducting Bible studies
and helping people
to come to know Jehovah.
She was looking forward
to her heavenly reward.
And for her that was the culmination
of a life of joy in Jehovah’s service
and that she was just transferring
to her next assignment.
I’m very, very grateful for work.
In fact, often in my prayers,
I’ll pray to Jehovah that I’ll have
some good work to do today.
I’m very grateful to have work to do.